#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.12
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile --extra=doc --extra=test --output-file=requirements-dev.txt --strip-extras requirements-dev.in setup.cfg
#
aioconsole==0.8.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
aiohappyeyeballs==2.4.4
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
aiohttp==3.11.11
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
    #   prometheus-async
aiokatcp==2.0.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
aiomonitor==0.7.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katsdpservices
aiosignal==1.3.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
alabaster==1.0.0
    # via sphinx
appdirs==1.4.4
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katsdpsigproc
asttokens==3.0.0
    # via stack-data
async-solipsism==0.7
    # via katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
async-timeout==5.0.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiokatcp
attrs==24.3.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
    #   aiomonitor
babel==2.16.0
    # via sphinx
build==1.2.2.post1
    # via pip-tools
certifi==2024.12.14
    # via requests
cfgv==3.4.0
    # via pre-commit
charset-normalizer==3.4.1
    # via requests
click==8.1.8
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
    #   dask
    #   pip-tools
cloudpickle==3.1.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   dask
coverage==7.6.10
    # via pytest-cov
dask==2025.3.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
decorator==5.1.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiokatcp
    #   ipython
    #   katsdpsigproc
distlib==0.3.9
    # via virtualenv
docutils==0.21.2
    # via
    #   pybtex-docutils
    #   sphinx
    #   sphinx-rtd-theme
    #   sphinxcontrib-bibtex
execnet==2.1.1
    # via pytest-xdist
executing==2.1.0
    # via stack-data
filelock==3.16.1
    # via virtualenv
frozenlist==1.5.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
    #   aiosignal
fsspec==2024.12.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   dask
hiredis==3.1.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katsdptelstate
identify==2.6.5
    # via pre-commit
idna==3.10
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   requests
    #   yarl
imagesize==1.4.1
    # via sphinx
iniconfig==2.0.0
    # via pytest
ipython==8.31.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
janus==2.0.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
jedi==0.19.2
    # via ipython
jinja2==3.1.6
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
    #   sphinx
katcp-codec==0.1.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiokatcp
katsdpservices==1.4
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
katsdpsigproc==1.9.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
katsdptelstate==0.14
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
latexcodec==3.0.0
    # via pybtex
llvmlite==0.43.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   numba
locket==1.0.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   partd
mako==1.3.8
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katsdpsigproc
    #   pycuda
markupsafe==3.0.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   jinja2
    #   mako
matplotlib-inline==0.1.7
    # via ipython
msgpack==1.1.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katsdptelstate
multidict==6.1.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
    #   yarl
netifaces==0.11.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katsdpservices
nodeenv==1.9.1
    # via pre-commit
numba==0.60.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   katsdpsigproc
numpy==2.0.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   katsdpsigproc
    #   katsdptelstate
    #   numba
    #   pandas
    #   scipy
    #   spead2
    #   xarray
packaging==24.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   build
    #   dask
    #   pytest
    #   sphinx
    #   xarray
pandas==2.2.3
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katsdpsigproc
    #   xarray
parso==0.8.4
    # via jedi
partd==1.4.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   dask
pexpect==4.9.0
    # via ipython
pip-tools==7.4.1
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
platformdirs==4.3.6
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   pycuda
    #   pytools
    #   virtualenv
pluggy==1.5.0
    # via pytest
pre-commit==4.0.1
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
prometheus-async==22.2.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
prometheus-client==0.21.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   prometheus-async
prompt-toolkit==3.0.48
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
    #   ipython
propcache==0.2.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
    #   yarl
ptyprocess==0.7.0
    # via pexpect
pure-eval==0.2.3
    # via stack-data
pybtex==0.24.0
    # via
    #   pybtex-docutils
    #   sphinxcontrib-bibtex
pybtex-docutils==1.0.3
    # via sphinxcontrib-bibtex
pycuda==2025.1.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katsdpsigproc
pygelf==0.4.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katsdpservices
pygments==2.19.1
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   sphinx
pyparsing==3.2.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
pyproject-hooks==1.2.0
    # via
    #   build
    #   pip-tools
pytest==8.3.4
    # via
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   pytest-asyncio
    #   pytest-cov
    #   pytest-custom-exit-code
    #   pytest-mock
    #   pytest-xdist
pytest-asyncio==0.25.2
    # via katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
pytest-cov==6.0.0
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
pytest-custom-exit-code==0.3.0
    # via katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
pytest-mock==3.14.0
    # via katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
pytest-xdist==3.6.1
    # via -r requirements-dev.in
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   pandas
pytools==2025.1.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   pycuda
pytz==2024.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   pandas
pyyaml==6.0.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   dask
    #   pre-commit
    #   pybtex
redis==5.2.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katsdptelstate
requests==2.32.4
    # via sphinx
scipy==1.15.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   katsdpsigproc
six==1.17.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katsdptelstate
    #   pybtex
    #   python-dateutil
snowballstemmer==2.2.0
    # via sphinx
spead2==4.4.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
sphinx==8.1.3
    # via
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   sphinx-mathjax-offline
    #   sphinx-rtd-theme
    #   sphinxcontrib-bibtex
    #   sphinxcontrib-jquery
    #   sphinxcontrib-tikz
sphinx-mathjax-offline==0.0.2
    # via katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
sphinx-rtd-theme==3.0.2
    # via katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
sphinxcontrib-applehelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-bibtex==2.6.3
    # via katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
sphinxcontrib-devhelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-htmlhelp==2.1.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-jquery==4.1
    # via sphinx-rtd-theme
sphinxcontrib-jsmath==1.0.1
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-qthelp==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-serializinghtml==2.0.0
    # via sphinx
sphinxcontrib-tikz==0.4.20
    # via katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
stack-data==0.6.3
    # via ipython
telnetlib3==2.0.4
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
terminaltables==3.1.10
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
toolz==1.0.0
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   dask
    #   partd
trafaret==2.1.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
traitlets==5.14.3
    # via
    #   ipython
    #   matplotlib-inline
typing-extensions==4.12.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiokatcp
    #   aiomonitor
    #   katsdpsigproc
    #   pytools
tzdata==2024.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   pandas
urllib3==2.3.0
    # via requests
virtualenv==20.28.1
    # via pre-commit
wcwidth==0.2.13
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   prompt-toolkit
wheel==0.45.1
    # via pip-tools
wrapt==1.17.2
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   prometheus-async
xarray==2025.1.1
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
yarl==1.18.3
    # via
    #   -c requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp

# The following packages are considered to be unsafe in a requirements file:
# pip
# setuptools
