#
# This file is autogenerated by pip-compile with Python 3.10
# by the following command:
#
#    pip-compile --extra=qualification --output-file=qualification/requirements.txt --strip-extras qualification/requirements.in setup.cfg
#
aioconsole==0.7.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
aiohttp==3.9.5
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
    #   prometheus-async
aiokatcp==1.10.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
aiomonitor==0.7.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katsdpservices
aiosignal==1.3.1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
appdirs==1.4.4
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katsdpsigproc
async-timeout==4.0.3
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
    #   aiokatcp
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   redis
attrs==23.1.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
    #   aiomonitor
backports-strenum==1.3.1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
certifi==2023.11.17
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   requests
charset-normalizer==3.3.2
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   requests
click==8.1.7
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
    #   dask
cloudpickle==3.0.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   dask
contourpy==1.2.0
    # via matplotlib
cycler==0.12.1
    # via matplotlib
dask==2023.12.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
dateparser==1.2.0
    # via prometheus-api-client
decorator==5.1.1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiokatcp
    #   katsdpsigproc
docutils==0.20.1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
exceptiongroup==1.2.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   pytest
fonttools==4.46.0
    # via matplotlib
frozenlist==1.4.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
    #   aiosignal
fsspec==2023.12.1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   dask
hiredis==2.2.3
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katsdptelstate
httmock==1.4.0
    # via prometheus-api-client
idna==3.7
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   requests
    #   yarl
importlib-metadata==7.0.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   dask
iniconfig==2.0.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   pytest
janus==1.0.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
jinja2==3.1.4
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
katcp-codec==0.1.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiokatcp
katsdpservices==1.3
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
katsdpsigproc==1.8.1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
katsdptelstate==0.13
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
kiwisolver==1.4.5
    # via matplotlib
llvmlite==0.42.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   numba
locket==1.0.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   partd
mako==1.3.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katsdpsigproc
markupsafe==2.1.3
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   jinja2
    #   mako
matplotlib==3.8.2
    # via
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   prometheus-api-client
msgpack==1.0.7
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katsdptelstate
multidict==6.0.4
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
    #   yarl
netifaces==0.11.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katsdpservices
numba==0.59.1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   katsdpsigproc
numpy==1.26.2
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   contourpy
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   katsdpsigproc
    #   katsdptelstate
    #   matplotlib
    #   numba
    #   pandas
    #   prometheus-api-client
    #   scipy
    #   spead2
    #   xarray
ordered-set==4.1.0
    # via pylatex
packaging==23.2
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   dask
    #   matplotlib
    #   pytest
    #   xarray
pandas==2.1.4
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katsdpsigproc
    #   prometheus-api-client
    #   xarray
partd==1.4.1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   dask
pillow==10.3.0
    # via matplotlib
pluggy==1.3.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   pytest
prometheus-api-client==0.5.4
    # via katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
prometheus-async==22.2.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
prometheus-client==0.19.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   prometheus-async
prompt-toolkit==3.0.43
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
pygelf==0.4.2
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katsdpservices
pylatex==1.4.2
    # via katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
pyparsing==3.0.9
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   matplotlib
pytest==7.4.3
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -r qualification/requirements.in
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   pytest-asyncio
    #   pytest-check
    #   pytest-custom-exit-code
    #   pytest-reportlog
pytest-asyncio==0.21.1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
pytest-check==2.2.2
    # via katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
pytest-custom-exit-code==0.3.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
pytest-reportlog==0.4.0
    # via katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
python-dateutil==2.9.0.post0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   dateparser
    #   matplotlib
    #   pandas
pytz==2023.3.post1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   dateparser
    #   pandas
pyyaml==6.0.1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   dask
redis==5.0.1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katsdptelstate
regex==2023.10.3
    # via dateparser
requests==2.32.2
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   httmock
    #   prometheus-api-client
scipy==1.11.4
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   katsdpsigproc
six==1.16.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katsdptelstate
    #   python-dateutil
spead2==4.3.1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
terminaltables==3.1.10
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
tomli==2.0.1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   pytest
toolz==0.12.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   dask
    #   partd
trafaret==2.1.1
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiomonitor
typing-extensions==4.12.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiokatcp
    #   aiomonitor
    #   janus
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
    #   katsdpsigproc
tzdata==2023.3
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   pandas
tzlocal==5.2
    # via dateparser
urllib3==2.1.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   requests
wcwidth==0.2.13
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   prompt-toolkit
wrapt==1.16.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   prometheus-async
xarray==2023.12.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   katgpucbf (setup.cfg)
yarl==1.9.4
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   aiohttp
zipp==3.17.0
    # via
    #   -c qualification/../requirements-dev.txt
    #   -c qualification/../requirements.txt
    #   importlib-metadata
